In this lecture, you'll see how to configure a log with a lab Damul I'm using the same simple topology
again.
I've got my Rotar one at Tandoor Order 0.01, and I've got my Annemasse network monitoring system at
Tandoor over 100.
That's going to act as the log server.
And I'm actually on ten point one hundred right now.
I've currently got a control session open with router.
You can see that there.
And I'm going to open up a telnet session as well so you can see the difference with the logging in
the console and overactivity wireline.
So I'll go to Potti and I'll tell that to Tand or the old one and log in here.
Should I click in right window and put in my password?
OK, so that's me logged in over telnet as well.
And I'll come to the bigger console window and I'll just show logging to look at the current state.
This is the default right now so you can see that the default logging level is debugging and I'm going
to be logging the console and the buffer by default, not to the monitor, which is my telnet and my
SS each session we can see that working.
If I go to the telnet session and I'll go to interface fast three swash zero dollars check and see if
it are not shut right now.
So I'll do your IP interface brief and three zero.
It's no actually being used as currently admin up so that they not interface.
And when I do that, we should see there's the logging message showing up in the console window, it
doesn't show up in the telnet window because logging is not enabled to your viewing line by default.
OK, let's do some configuring then so you could see that we do have logging enabled to the console.
Right now, let's turn it off.
So I could do that in either window here, either in my talent or my console window.
I will go to global config and do no logging console to turn off the logging to the console.
And I do want to enable logging to my telnet session and watch me.
Logging to its monitor for your viewing lines was set at level five.
And also I'm going to make sure the terminal monitor is enabled in here as well.
Now, if I go back to interface first three swash zero and I will do a no shut on there now and you'll
see that it should get logged to my telnet session.
There is there.
And it didn't get logged to the console session because I disabled logging on there.
OK, another thing I'll do is just configure logging to the buffer as well.
So for that I will see logging buffer.
Let's make it seven, which is what it was already anyway.
And if I now do a show logging, I can see that logging is disabled to the control.
I've got it set to level five, which is notifications to monitor logging, which is for my telnet and
AC sessions and buffer logging is the debugging level.
You can also see how many messages were received in each of them as well.
They're different values here because I've been playing with the logging values.
OK, OK, so what we're doing here at Michurin logging, if I have spacebar, scroll down, you'll see
all of my logging events are in the logging buffer.
I did a debug of ICMP earlier when I was doing a ping.
So that's where you see all the ICMP events in.
They're also the interface going up and down I was just doing a minute ago as well.
OK, so that's pretty much it for our internal logging and configuring that.
Let's also do some external logging as well.
So right now I have installed the free Kiwi's just log server on my PC here, which is that tandoor
order order 100.
I haven't done any logging to it yet, so let's set that up now.
So I'll go back on the command line on my router and global config offset logging to my log server tandoor
order, order one hundred and I'll set the severity level of events I want to send there so I'll see
a logging trap.
I don't use the debugging level.
And now if I go back to that interface Fast's three swash zero, I'll do I do your IP interface brief
again.
I can see it's currently administratively shut down so I'll do a no shut down on that interface and
a see that getting logged.
So I see it being logged here in my telnet session and I also see it being logged on this log server
as well.
And 5N do a shutdown again.
I'll show you that being logged in both locations as well.
OK, so that was how to configure.
Just log.
See you in the next lecture.